This study explores differences in personality traits of Schumpeterian entrepreneurs from the Big Five psychological theory perspective. A natural language processing approach is employed to examine the content of tweets in a sample of 47 pairs of Schumpeterian and non-Schumpeterian entrepreneurs taken from Forbes' "Billionaires" list. The identification mechanism for Schumpeterian entrepreneurs is based on the feature of being founders and developers of Unicorn companies. Matching of treatment and control groups is accomplished through Propensity Score Matching (PSM) mechanis. Personality traits are assessed using the Big Five theoretical model, and language processing is conducted using the RoBERTa model. Prediction of parameters is performed by neural network algorithms.

There are significant differences between personality traits, the t-test for two independent samples found statistically significant differences at 0.005 of significance between the traits extraversion (EXT), agreeabliness (AGR), awareness (CON), and openness to experience (OPN).
The personality traits of Schumpeterian founders are stochastically dominated by the traits of non-Schumpetarian founders in the psychological traits of neuroticism (NEU) and agreeableness (AGR).
This suggests that the profile of Schumpeterian entrepreneurs is systematically different from that of non-Schumpeterians in agreeableness and emotional instability. 
In summary, this study provides evidence suggesting that traits like extraversion, neuroticism, and openness to experience may be integral to the distinctive personality of Schumpeterian entrepreneurs. However, further research and empirical evidence with larger samples are needed to establish clear and generalizable patterns between both types of entrepreneurs. The use of natural language processing techniques emerges as a promising option for evaluating personality traits based on textual productions.

Palabras claves: Schumpeterian entrepreneurship, personality profile, neural networks, natural language processing, RoBERTa's fine-tuning model.
Autor: Guillermo Alberto Peralta Godoy
